When analyzing a financial document,
we can gain deeper insights looking at the word compositions.
For instance, a document filled with words like lawsuits,
risks, losses, bankruptcy, might be indicative of problems within the company.
How do we quantify this information?
This can be done by condensing a document into a bag of words.
Reviewing the bag of words concept,
we can imagine a document or a sentence as shown
here as an apple tree and the words as apples on the tree.
That is, after all the pre-processing steps like lemmatization and stop-word removal,
then we can harvest the apples into a bag of words.
There is a potential issue with bag of words though.
Since the bag of words ignore word orders.
For example, consider the following sentence,
"No employees have left the company."
Now compare that to the next sentence,
"The company has no employees left."
These two sentences have exactly the same words in different order.
So they have the same bag of words but completely opposite meaning.
Another issue with bag of words is that for a long document there could be
many different words which could lead to a large number of bags.
These might dilute the amount of useful information in the bag of words framework.
Despite these shortfalls, bag of words is useful because of its simplicity,
and it's a good starting point for learning more complex analysis methods.